so first instead of doing the advanced
part first
first we're going to
animate this cube
to an audio
so we're going to switch to
the graph editor
and insert a keyframe
the keyframe doesn't matter it's going
to get overwritten
in the graph editor
select key
big sound to f curves
and the settings are over here on the
left but you really don't need to
to change them
so
you can see that
this value
the x y and z location
are now
animated to the volume of that sound
clip and
you can
actually add in the sound clip so you
hear what's going on
[Music]
so that's pretty simple you can you can
animate some things this way
um
but what's important is
about this tutorial is actually
applying it to complex things like an
armature an armature isn't going to work
like this
and
other things and you also
don't have control unless you make it
all over again
[Music]
so
i'm going to show you how to do it with
drivers so we're going to leave this
cube here this is going to be our
control object
so this is just going to be a different
object
just
for something else to use
this one
i'm going to
add a driver
to the scale
the z scale
so
how to how you add a driver is any value
really anywhere in blender
you right click on um the slider and add
a driver if i click add drivers it's
going to add drivers to the whole scale
but i'm just going to add a single
driver
and
back in the graph editor switch to
drivers
and um
all the drivers for this object there's
only one are over here
so you can only select and edit one at a
time
let's see
you're going to scroll down to the
drivers section
and this is a little complicated but
i'll explain it um
this in the expression box
this is the value of whatever
z scale is
or whatever value you're changing so
it's at one it's going to stay at one um
you could type in five and it's going to
stay at five
um
but what we're going to do
is use this down here this is
an external value uh named var
um
and we have to actually choose
where to get that value from we're going
to get it from
cube
that cube we made earlier and we're
going to get it from the cube's x
location and that's going to be called
var so we type in var
and
this
is going to constantly be
this value is going to constantly be
this other objects
[Music]
but we want to actually be able to edit
it
so
this
this box right here
acts um you can put in any mathematical
equation so let's say we don't want it
to be flat when the value is at zero so
var plus two
this is going to take whatever value
it's at and add two
[Music]
the asterisk is multiplied
um
we can
apply this to just about anything
so
let's add a driver to
this and make it change color
to add a driver to a color you just have
to right click on that box
so now we have these three drivers and
i'm going to
switch the red
and for for each one you have to select
this cube again
i usually name it something that's going
to be at the top of the list for a big
scene
and put in bar
and now
[Music]
that's changing color um and that's the
red
changing
amount but since the other since the
other values
you can see at this particular frame
the red is down to zero to almost zero
because the sound is at almost zero
um and the other colors are still up so
um
have fun trying to make that work
um and then for armatures
let's add an armature
let's just
add a little something
that we can deform this with
and i'm going to i'm going to add a new
bone and use it as a
an ik target
so
i can do that to it that's not exactly
what i wanted oh right
i have to split this up so that i can
actually animate it
so that's a little weird but
um
just like everything else you can
add drivers and you can add individual
drivers
and if i wanted to i could
control the
x location
with one controller
so you had multiple
targets
and they each
were based on a different audio file say
one was the high-pitched part of the
audio file one was the baseline
etc
you could
affect individual things
uh the x location with the baseline y
with the
um
the high pitched notes and
you can also
um
have
multiple
variables involved in this equation up
here
as well
so you can you can do a lot of things
you can get really complex and control
things
with this